***2-2 Correctness of bubblesort***<br>
Bubblesort is a popular, but inefficient, sorting algorithm. It works by repeatedly swapping adjacent elements that are out of order.
```
Bubblesort(A)
    for i = 1 to A.length - 1
        for j = A.length downto i + 1
            if A[j] < A[j-1]
                exchange A[j] with A[j-1]
```
***a.*** Let _A_' denote the output of `Bubblesort(A)`. To prove that `Bubblesort` is correct, we need to prove that it terminates and that _A_'[1] ≤ _A_'[2] ≤ ... ≤ _A_'[_n_], where _n_ = _A.length_. In order to show that `Bubblesort` actually sorts, what else do we need to prove?
* That the elements in A' are the same as A.

***b.*** State precisely a loop invariant for the for loop in lines 2–4 (the **downto** loop), and prove that this loop invariant holds. Your proof should use the structure of the loop invariant proof presented in this chapter.
* The loop in question maintains the following loop invariant: at the start of each iteration of the loop, the subarray A[j..n] is a permutation of the values that were in A[j..n] when the loop started, and the element A[j] is the smallest among them.
* **Initialisation:** Initially, j = n, so the subarray A[j..n] contains only one one element A[n], trivially the smallest element of the subarray, and thus the loop invariant holds
* **Maintainence:** Every iteration of the loop, A[j] is compared to A[j-1], and is swapped if smaller. After each iteration, the length of subarray A[j..n] increases by one and A[j] is the smallest element within it. The elements in the subarray remain a permutation of the elements that were it at the start of the loop.
* **Termination:** The loop terminates when j = i. As A[i] is the smallest element in A[i..n], and A[i..n] would consist of the same elements as at the start of the loop, the loop invariant is held.

***c.*** Using the termination condition of the loop invariant proved in part (b), state a loop invariant for the **for** loop in lines 1–4 that will allow you to prove _A_'[1] ≤ _A_'[2] ≤ ... ≤ _A_'[_n_]. Your proof should use the strucutre of the loop invariant prof present in this chapter.
* At the start of each iteration of the loop, the subarray A[1..i-1] contains the i-1 smallest values in the array in sorted order. Subarray A[i..n] contains the remaining n-i+1 remaining values in the array.
* **Initialisation:** Initially, i = 1, therfore the subarray A[1..i-1] is empty, and trivially contains the smallest zero elements.
* **Maintenance:** At the end of the inner loop, A[i] becomes the smallest element of the array, so A[1..i] contains the i smallest values in the array, in sorted order. Meanwhile, A[i+1..n] contains the remaining n-i remaining elements.
* **Termination:** The loop terminates when i = n, such that by the loop invariant, A[1..n-1] would contain the n-1 smallest elements in the array, sorted; A[n] would contain the last element, which must be the largest element, thus resulting in a fully sorted array.

***d.*** What is the worst-case running time of bubblesort? How does it compare to the running time of insertion sort?
* For every value of i from 1 to n-1, the inner for loop makes n-i iterations:
```
n-1
 Σ(n - i) = (n-1)/2 * [n-1 + n-(n-1)]
i=1
          = (n-1)/2 * (n - 1 + n - n + 1)
          = (n-1)/2 * n
          = (n^2 - n)/2
```
* Thus, the worst case running time of bubblesort is Θ(n<sup>2</sup>), the same as insertion sort.